[]

-   Overview
-   Training
-   Contests
-   History
-   Staff
-   Resources

USACO 2018 December Contest, Silver

Problem 1. Convention

Return to Problem List

Contest has ended.

[]

Log in to allow submissions in analysis mode

English (en) Armenian (hy) French (fr) Russian (ru) Spanish (es) Chinese
(zh)

Farmer John is hosting a new bovine grass-eating convention at his farm!

Cows from all over the world are arriving at the local airport to attend
the convention and eat grass. Specifically, there are $N$ cows arriving
at the airport ($1 \leq N \leq 10^5$) and cow $i$ arrives at time $t_i$
($0 \leq t_i \leq 10^9$). Farmer John has arranged $M$ ($1 \leq M \leq
10^5$) buses to transport the cows from the airport. Each bus can hold
up to $C$ cows in it ($1 \leq C \leq N$). Farmer John is waiting with
the buses at the airport and would like to assign the arriving cows to
the buses. A bus can leave at the time when the last cow on it arrives.
Farmer John wants to be a good host and so does not want to keep the
arriving cows waiting at the airport too long. What is the smallest
possible value of the maximum waiting time of any one arriving cow if
Farmer John coordinates his buses optimally? A cowâ€™s waiting time is the
difference between her arrival time and the departure of her assigned
bus.

It is guaranteed that $MC \geq N$.

INPUT FORMAT (file convention.in):

The first line contains three space separated integers $N$, $M$, and
$C$. The next line contains $N$ space separated integers representing
the arrival time of each cow.

OUTPUT FORMAT (file convention.out):

Please write one line containing the optimal minimum maximum waiting
time for any one arriving cow.

SAMPLE INPUT:

    6 3 2
    1 1 10 14 4 3

SAMPLE OUTPUT:

    4

If the two cows arriving at time 1 go in one bus, cows arriving at times
3 and 4 in the second, and cows arriving at times 10 and 14 in the
third, the longest time a cow has to wait is 4 time units (the cow
arriving at time 10 waits from time 10 to time 14).

Problem credits: Grace Cai

Contest has ended. No further submissions allowed.
