[]

-   Overview
-   Training
-   Contests
-   History
-   Staff
-   Resources

USACO 2022 January Contest, Gold

Problem 3. Tests for Haybales

Return to Problem List

Contest has ended.

[]

Log in to allow submissions in analysis mode

English (en) French (fr) Russian (ru) Spanish (es) Chinese (zh)

Farmer John's cows have decided to offer a programming contest for the
cows on Farmer Nhoj's farm. In order to make the problems as fun as
possible, they have spent considerable time coming up with challenging
input cases. For one problem in particular, "Haybales", the cows need
your help devising challenging inputs. This involve solving the
following somewhat intriguing problem:

There is an array of sorted integers $x_1 \leq x_2 \leq \dotsb \leq x_N$
($1 \leq N \leq 10^5$), and an integer $K$. You don't know the array or
$K$, but you do know for each index $i$, the largest index $j_i$ such
that $x_{j_i} \leq x_i + K$. It is guaranteed that $i\le j_i$ and
$j_1\le j_2\le \cdots \le j_N\le N$.

Given this information, Farmer John's cows need to construct any array
along with some integer $K$ that matches that information. The
construction needs to satisfy $0 \leq x_i \leq 10^{18}$ for all $i$ and
$1 \leq K \leq 10^{18}$.

It can be proven that this is always possible. Help Farmer John's cows
solve this problem!

INPUT FORMAT (input arrives from the terminal / stdin):

The first line of input contains $N$. The next line contains
$j_1,j_2,\ldots,j_N$.

OUTPUT FORMAT (print output to the terminal / stdout):

Print $K$, then $x_1,\ldots,x_N$ on separate lines. Any valid output
will be accepted.

SAMPLE INPUT:

    6
    2 2 4 5 6 6

SAMPLE OUTPUT:

    6
    1
    6
    17
    22
    27
    32

The sample output is the array $a = [1, 6, 17, 22, 27, 32]$ with $K =
6$. $j_1 = 2$ is satisfied because $a_2 = 6 \leq 1 + 6 = a_1 + K$ but
$a_3 = 17 > 1 + 6 = a_1 + K$, so $a_2$ is the largest element that is at
most $a_1$. Similarly,

-   $j_2 = 2$ is satisfied because $a_2 = 6 \leq 6 + 6$ but $a_3 = 17 >
    6 + 6$
-   $j_3 = 4$ is satisfied because $a_4 = 22 \leq 17 + 6$ but $a_5 =
    27 > 17 + 6$
-   $j_4 = 5$ is satisfied because $a_5 = 27 \leq 22 + 6$ but $a_5 =
    32 > 22 + 6$
-   $j_5 = 6$ is satisfied because $a_6 = 32 \leq 27 + 6$ and $a_6$ is
    the last element of the array
-   $j_6 = 6$ is satisfied because $a_6 = 32 \leq 32 + 6$ and $a_6$ is
    the last element of the array

This is not the only possible correct output for the sample input. For
example, you could instead output the array $[1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7]$ with $K
= 1$.

SCORING:

-   For 50% of all inputs, $N\le 5000$
-   For the remaining inputs, there are no additional constraints.

Problem credits: Danny Mittal

Contest has ended. No further submissions allowed.
